# stock_market_prediction_challenge
## Project Overview
In the financial market, the movement of stock prices are never entirely predictable. Having a reliable 
way to forecast stock prices is crucial for most trading strategies. Many techniques have been 
developed to make predictions, ranging from fundamental techniques that involve analysing 
company financial statements to technical analysis which utilises indicators derived from the prices. 
Different kind of market participants perform trades on the stock which causes the prices to vary 
intraday. These price movements form a non-stationary time series data. Although the series formed 
are often very noisy, one can extract signals from historical price trends in some occasions and 
forecast future prices. 

## Problem Statement 
This project is based on the Stock Market predictions on asset returns from a proprietary dataset 
provided. We make use of artificial neural networks to identify hidden patterns in the data. 

## Metrics
Submissions is done on weighted mean absolute error, where each return being predicted is 
compared with the actual return, scaled by its corresponding weight: 

(https://github.com/ahmedali1102/stock_market_prediction_challenge/assets/162327449/b8986748-2985-4366-bee6-9c8b6a36e2c8)


where ğ‘¤ğ‘– is the weight associated with the return ğ‘–, ğ‘¦Ì‚ğ‘– is the predicted return, ğ‘¦Ì‚ ğ‘– is the actual return, 
and ğ‘› is the number of predictions. These columns are discussed more thoroughly in the next 
section. A total of 62 returns has to be generated by our model for each 5-day window. 

